I'm Vicki MacDonald and I'm at Holy Trinity Church, Fandedno, and I'm going to talk to
Mike Goodall about his family memories during the war, particularly his mother.
Thank you, Mike.
My mother, she was, as I say, born in, brought up in Burton-on-Trent in Staffordshire in
the Midlands, the brewery town, and during the war, I know the first year of the war,
she went as a land army girl down in Devon, and after that she returned home and then
became a member of the NAFI, based at Alton Towers in Staffordshire, and from what I know,
it was mainly a training base for Canadian airmen, as there was one or two airfields
in the Midlands, particularly one at Fradley in Staffordshire, where at St Stephen's Church
there are many Canadian airmen who are buried in the churchyard there.
And I know my mother had four, from what I know, from what she said, that she had four
happy years in the NAFI.
She was only about 20 miles away from home, so it wasn't too far away from home, but
they had certain events, and as I think to say, it was quite an experience, but quite
an enjoyable time that she had.
It was an American base, was it?
Yes, Canadian.
Canadian.
So did she have those privileges of having bananas and oranges and sweets and chewing
gum, which a lot of people have mentioned to me?
Yes, yes, as I say, although they were mainly under campus, but they were quite well looked
after, and as I say, it wasn't particularly, from what she told me, it wasn't a hard time,
but it was a lot of work and very hard work, long hours.
Yes, because she would have had these three meals a day.
Yes, yes.
And good meals too.
So was she a cook or was she, do you know what she did?
Just general, she's actually served in the NAFI, in the canteen for setting everything
up and then obviously all the washing up and everything else that went with it.
And then she met your father later.
Yes, yes.
He had also been through the war.
My father was in the Royal Artillery and was initially in North Africa with the Eighth
Army, with the Rommel Brigade, and he was actually carrying, most of the time, he was
carrying ammunition, so it was a very dangerous job.
He was transporting ammunition to the front lines in North Africa.
And then the last year of the war, as it started to go, they were moved up into Italy, because
Italy then was with the Germans and they were pushing the Germans out of Italy, starting
down in Sicily and then moving north in North Africa.
And he spent five years, five years altogether, he had the whole five years.
Five years and he came back unabashedly.
Came back safely, yes.
And they got married after.
Yes.
That's such a lovely story.
Thank you so much for sharing it with me, particularly about your mother, because we
want to know about the women during the war, possibly they're not mentioned very often.
So thank you so much.
Thank you.
Pleasure.
I think we've forgotten to ask your mother's name, so perhaps you can tell me what she was called.
Yes, my mother's name was Doris Oldham, sorry, Doris Mabel Oldham.
Well, it's lovely that we're remembering her today.
Thank you very much.